# Final-Project---1005
This is the repo for Saiyaz Kazi's final project. 

The link to my ShinyApp is: https://saiyaz-kazi.shinyapps.io/Img-Vote-2016/

  This project looks at the strength of immigrant votes per state in the 2016 general election. This is done by using the American National Election Studies Survey taken during the 2016 general election. The survey took over 4000 random respondents, using demographic and preferencial questioning to parse sentiments and reactions to the election. One core demographic of the survey is the identification of being an immigrant. Immigrant, for the purposes of this project and the limitation of the question structure of the ANES, is to be defined as anyone not having been born within the States who is of voting age. Naturally, the sample thus is constricted to naturalized citizens. The appropriate code variable is V161321a.
  
  After subsetting the survey to only have immigrant responses, the data was then split by state. Immigrants, by state, were coded for their voting preferences of "Democratic" - voting for the democratic party, "Republican", and "Other" - votes that went to third party or independent candidates. With the bucketed data by State, my projet allows you to track the ratio of votes (what I can vote strength) by Party in the respective sample states. You'll be able to see where immigrants strongly represent one party and its values over another. The project is useful identyfying and cemeting certain intuitive claims regarding immigrant aggregate sentiments around party voting, as well as more engaging findings that are less explicable and truly challenge the notion of the immigrant narrative in America.
